IP Rotation Extension (#235)
Frederikam/Lavalink: ROUTEPLANNERS.md

# RoutePlanner Strategies

> ***Terminology***
>
> **Ip block / CIDR block**
>
> An IP block or CIDR block are addresses which are next to each other
>

> > (e.g.) 1.0.0.0, 1.0.0.1, 1.0.0.2, ...

Reviewer: These are not CIDRs. They're just IPs.

Author: are addresses which are next to each other... e.g. address1, address2 and so on. so I wanted to show what I mean by "addresses that are next to each other"

>
> **Combined IP Block**
>
> A combined IP Block is created when multiple IPs / CIDR blocks are added to the 
> configuration file. Lavaplayer will treat them as a single virtual IP-Block.

## RotateOnBan Strategy
### RoutePlanner
This strategy uses the `RotatingIpRoutePlanner`.
### Implementation
This strategy switches the ip as soon as the used address got banned.
### Requirements / Recommendations
The usage of this strategy is recommended for IPv4 blocks or smaller IPv6 blocks 
(less than a /64)

## LoadBalance Strategy
### RoutePlanner
This strategy uses the `BalancingIpRoutePlanner`.
### Implementation
This strategy chooses random addresses from the given ip-block.
### Requirements / Recommendations
YouTube already bans ips from their service when they just do a few automated
requests per day. Due to this you should have a bigger IPv6 CIDR to use this 
strategy.

This strategy does not require a big CIDR to work, but you will most likely 
get banned when you have not enough IP's in the used CIDR.

## NanoSwitch Strategy
### RoutePlanner
This strategy uses the `NanoIpRoutePlanner`.
### Implementation

> This strategy switches the ip on each clock-update and uses the current nano-time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This strategy switches the IP on each clock update and uses the current nanosecond
```

as offset in the used block.
### Requirements / Recommendations
This strategy requires at least a (combined) /64 IPv6 CIDR (18 quintillion 
addresses).

> If you have a CIDR which is (combined) bigger than a /64, its recommended to use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a CIDR which is (combined) bigger than a /64, it is recommended to use
```

`RotatingNanoSwitch` instead.

## RotatingNanoSwitch Strategy
### RoutePlanner
This strategy uses the `RotatingNanoIpRoutePlanner`.
### Implementation
This strategy switches the ip on each clock-update and uses the current nano-time
as offset in the used block.

When a ban occurs, this strategy rotates to the next /64 block as fallback strategy.
### Requirements / Recommendations
This strategy requires at least a /64 IPv6 CIDR (18 quintillion 
addresses).

For a working rotation you need at least 2 /64 IPv6 CIDRs.

> Its not recommended using combined /64s here (e.g. 2 different /65s). But you can 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is not recommended using combined /64s here (e.g. 2 different /65s). But you can 
```

# RoutePlanner Strategies

## Terminology

> ### Ip Block / Subnet

Reviewer: They're not subnets. Call them CIDR blocks instead. Not all CIDR blocks are subnets. For instance, my home router's LAN subnet is `192.168.0.100/24`.

Refer to proper CIDR documentation.

Reviewer: New version does still not explain CIDR notation.

Link to a proper resource.

An IP Block or Subnet are addresses which are next to each other

> (p.e.) 1.0.0.0, 1.0.0.1, 1.0.0.2, ...

Reviewer: What does p.e. mean? Did you mean e.g.?

### Combined IP Block
A combined IP Block is created when multiple IPs / subnets are added to the 

> configuration file. Lavaplayer will convert them to a single virtual IP-Block.

Reviewer: > convert them to

Better wording might be “treat them like”

> ## Strategies

Reviewer: This section is overly terse. Consider removing the 3 H4s and just write a paragraph.

### RotateOnBan Strategy
#### RoutePlanner
This strategy uses the `RotatingIpRoutePlanner`.
#### Implementation
This strategy switches the ip as soon as the used address got banned.
#### Requirements / Recommendations
The usage of this strategy is recommended for IPv4 blocks or smaller IPv6 blocks 
(less than a /64)

> ---

Reviewer: These separators are unnecessary

requests per day. Due to this you should have a bigger IPv6 subnet to use this 
strategy.

It does not require a big subnet to work, but you will most likely get banned
when you have not enough IP's in the used subnet.

---

### NanoSwitch Strategy
#### RoutePlanner
This strategy uses the `NanoIpRoutePlanner`.
#### Implementation
This strategy switches the ip on each clock-update and uses the current nano-time
as offset in the used block.
#### Requirements / Recommendations
This strategy requires at least a (combined) /64 IPv6 subnet (18 quintillion 
addresses).

If you have a subnet which is (combined) bigger than a /64, its recommended to use
`RotatingNanoSwitch` instead.

---

### RotatingNanoSwitch Strategy
#### RoutePlanner
This strategy uses the `RotatingNanoIpRoutePlanner`.
#### Implementation
This strategy switches the ip on each clock-update and uses the current nano-time
as offset in the used block.

When a ban occurs, this strategy rotates to the next /64 block as fallback strategy.
#### Requirements / Recommendations
This strategy requires at least a /64 IPv6 subnet (18 quintillion 
addresses).

For a working rotation you need at least 2 /64 IPv6 subnets.

> I don't recommend using combined /64s here (p.e. 2 different /65s). You can 

Reviewer: Avoid using the pronoun `I`. The meaning is misleading when I own this repository.
